 Faced with a volatile international situation and rising global challenges, the G20 must rise to the occasion, enhance cooperation, and contribute its share to global development and prosperity.The G20 countries need to practice true multilateralism, uphold the UN-centered international system and the international order based on international law, and observe the basic norms of international relations underpinned by the purposes and principles of the UN Charter.It is necessary to follow the principles of dialogue on an equal footing and consensus-building through consultation. Global affairs should be handled through discussion. Not through power politics or bloc confrontation. Countries should work together to promote the sound development of globalization, reject unilateralism, protectionism and attempts to decouple or sever supply chains, and ensure the stable and smooth operation of global industry and supply chains.Global development must become more inclusive, resilient and beneficial for all. The Global Development Initiative proposed by China has offered a new option for stepping up the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The G20 should build on the good work done in the Bali summit, and press ahead for greater progress.Macroeconomic policy coordination needs to be enhanced and food and energy security safeguarded. China has suspended more debt service payment than any other G20 member, and participated in the debt treatment under the Common Framework. We hope that multilateral financial institutions and commercial creditors will be actively involved in the debt treatment of developing countries.Global economic governance needs to be improved. It is important to complete the 16th General Quota Review of the International Monetary Fund as scheduled, and conduct the shareholding review of the World Bank. China supports the African Union joining the G20, and looks forward to an early decision by the G20.International development cooperation needs to be bolstered. We need to support the SDG Summit of the United Nations, tackle the climate challenge, and act on the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework. The consensus of the Bali Summit on preventing illegal cross-border traffic of waste must be earnestly implemented.Global development and prosperity cannot be achieved without a peaceful and stable international environment. With this in mind, China has put forward the Global Security Initiative, and issued the position paper on the political settlement of the Ukraine crisis. China will always stand on the side of peace, actively promote peace talks, and play a constructive role. 